rfc: v3 API cleanup (#1440)
oneapi-src/oneDNN: rfcs/20220815-v3.0-API-cleanup/README.md

# RFC: v3.0 API cleanup

## Introduction
Major v3 oneDNN release is coming [soon](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN/milestone/16).
This is a perfect opportunity to provide API improvements.
To decrease maintenance pressure on the library, outdated APIs will be removed from the library which affects user integration code of oneDNN.

> It's highly likely that certain modifications in the code will be required to make a user application to compiler with oneDNN v3.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oneDNN v3.0 will not be API/ABI backward compatible with oneDNN v2.x. Hence, user will need to modify their code to use oneDNN v3.0.
```

Author: Thank you for a suggestion, applied.

Below one may find a comprehensive list of targeted changes:

## List of changes
Disclaimer: header files are copied in this folder are from oneDNN v2.7 to preserve lines to refer to exact spots.

* Build:

>     * Build time option `DNNL_USE_RT_OBJECTS_IN_PRIMITIVE_CACHE` and all code supporting the `false` value will be removed.

Reviewer 2: (nit) This is an undocumented option so we can remove it at any time

* C/C++ types:
    * Eltwise algorithm types:
        - [`soft_relu`](dnnl.hpp#L563) will be removed. [`soft_relu_v2`](dnnl.hpp#L565) will be renamed into `soft_relu`.
            * End user must specify `alpha` value in a correspondent call.
        - [`logsigmoid`](dnnl.hpp#L567) will be removed. It can be used as current [`soft_relu_v2`](dnnl.hpp#L565) with `alpha` equal to `-1`.
            * End user must replace the algorithm with another one.
        - [`bounded_relu`](dnnl.hpp#L561) will be removed. It can be used as current [`clip`](dnnl.hpp#L584) with `alpha` equal to `0` and `beta` equal to former `alpha`.
            * End user must replace the algorithm with another one.
        - [`hardswish`](dnnl.hpp#L592) will get an extension with `alpha` and `beta` parameters and follow [`hardsigmoid`](dnnl.hpp#L594) algorithm.

>             * End user must specify `alpha` and `beta` values in a correspondent call.

Author: Thanks for a suggestion. Updated an explanation fact for this one.

        - [`eltwise_gelu`](dnnl.hpp#576) will be removed as an alias to `eltwise_gelu_tanh`.

>             * End user must replace one type with another one.

Author: Are you asking why users who used `eltwise_gelu` directly will have to replace it with `eltwise_gelu_tanh`?

>             * End user must replace one type with another one.

Reviewer: Yes, why remove the syntactic sugar ?

            * End user must replace their code if values specified were used directly.
        - ISA enum values will be changed to better reflect an order of features supported.
            * No impact for end user.
    * Propagation kind:
        - [`forward_scoring`](dnnl.hpp#507) will be removed as an alias for `forward_inference`.
            * End user must replace one type with another one.
    * Algorithm types:
        - [`pooling_avg`](dnnl.hpp#617) will be removed as an alias for `pooling_avg_exclude_padding`.
            * End user must replace one type with another one.
    * RNN direction type:
        - [`unidirectional`](dnnl.hpp#827) will be removed as an alias for `unidirectional_left2right`.
            * End user must replace one type with another one.

* Attributes:
    * Sum post-op (C API affected only):
        - [`dnnl_post_ops_append_sum`](dnnl.h#L655) and [`dnnl_post_ops_append_sum_v2`](dnnl.h#L690) will be removed. [`dnnl_post_ops_append_sum_v3`](dnnl.h#L726) will be renamed into `dnnl_post_ops_append_sum`.
            * End user must add `zero_point` and `data_type` arguments in a correspondent call.
    * Depthwise post-op:

>         - [`append_dw_k3s1p1`](dnnl.hpp#L3240), [`append_dw_k3s2p1`](dnnl.hpp#L3306), [`get_params_dw_k3s1p1`](dnnl.hpp#L3262), and [`get_params_dw_k3s2p1`](dnnl.hpp#L3327) will be removed as their C API counterparts ([`dnnl_post_ops_append_dw_k3s1p1`](dnnl.h#L899), [`dnnl_post_ops_append_dw_k3s2p1`](dnnl.h#L959), [`dnnl_post_ops_get_params_dw_k3s1p1`](dnnl.h#L920), and [`dnnl_post_ops_get_params_dw_k3s2p1`](dnnl.h#L980)).

Author: Thanks, fixed.

        * End user must replace `logsoftmax_forward` and `logsoftmax_backward` calls with future `softmax_forward` and `softmax_backward` calls.
    * `layer_normalization_forward` [this](dnnl.hpp#L7875) and [this](dnnl.hpp#L7897) constructors and `layer_normalization_backward` [this](dnnl.hpp#L8056) and [this](dnnl.hpp#L8081) constructors relying on a single data descriptor instead of separate source and destination descriptors will be removed. Note that new constructors providing support for two memory descriptors may have same signature as former ones.
        * End user must update `layer_normalization_forward` and `layer_normalization_backward` classes with proper calls to primitive descriptors.
    * [`batch_normalization_forward`](dnnl.hpp#L7561) and [`batch_normalization_backward`](dnnl.hpp#L7699) constructors relying on a single data descriptor instead of source and destination will be replaced with constructors providing separate source and destination memory descriptors.

>         * End user must update `batch_normalization_forward` and `batch_normalization_backward` classes with proper calls to primitive descriptors.

Author: Thank you for a suggestion, updated.

    * [`eltwise_forward`](dnnl.hpp#L6656) and [`eltwise_backward`](dnnl.hpp#L6757) constructors relying on a single data descriptor instead of source and destination will be replaced with constructors providing separate source and destination memory descriptors.
        * End user must update `eltwise_forward` and `eltwise_backward` classes with proper calls to primitive descriptors.
    * [`prelu_forward`](dnnl.hpp#L12647) and [`prelu_backward`](dnnl.hpp#L12742) constructors relying on a single data descriptor instead of source and destination will be replaced with constructors providing separate source and destination memory descriptors.
        * End user must update `prelu_forward` and `prelu_backward` classes with proper calls to primitive descriptors.
    * [`lrn_forward`](dnnl.hpp#L6165) and [`lrn_backward`](dnnl.hpp#L6268) constructors relying on a single data descriptor instead of source and destination will be replaced with constructors providing separate source and destination memory descriptors.
        * End user must update `lrn_forward` and `lrn_backward` classes with proper calls to primitive descriptors.

* Primitive descriptors:

>     * C API [`dnnl_convolution_forward_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1512), [`dnnl_convolution_backward_data_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1589), and [`dnnl_convolution_backward_weights_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1663) calls will be removed. [`dnnl_dilated_convolution_forward_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1555), [`dnnl_dilated_convolution_backward_data_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1626), and [`dnnl_dilated_convolution_backward_weights_desc_init`](dnnl.h#1704) will be renamed to `dnnl_convolution_forward_desc_init`, `dnnl_convolution_backward_data_desc_init`, and `dnnl_convolution_backward_weights_desc_init` correspondently. Note that these API calls will be updated to have three more arguments according to [this RFC](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN/pull/1391).

Reviewer 2: > Note that these API calls will be updated to have three more arguments according

(nit) 2 for forward (engine, attributes) and 3 for backward (engine, attributes and hint)

Author: Thanks, fixed to reflect it.

        * End user must update calls that will be removed with dilation parameter or change the name of modified calls.

>     * Sum [`primitive_desc`](dnnl.hpp#4519) constructors, Concat [`primitive_desc`](dnnl.hpp#4422) constructors, and Shuffle [`primitive_desc`](dnnl.hpp#11727) constructor will change a signature, where attributes and engine will be swapped, to align with rest primitive_desc constructors from other classes.

Reviewer: I guess this goes in C/C++ types section.

Author: It's under "Primitive descriptors" section. Would you like to move whole section under C/C++ Types section?

        * End user must update calls to mentioned constructors according to the change.
    * RNN [`constructors`](dnnl.hpp#8900) will drop `beta` and `flags` arguments as not used.

>         * End user must update constructor call if non-zero `alpha` argument was provided.

Reviewer 2: Why?

Author: `flags` go before `alpha`. So users had to set `flags` explicitly in case of explicit `alpha`, and now we removed `flags`.

# RFC: v3.0 API cleanup

## Introduction
Major v3 oneDNN release is coming [soon](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN/milestone/16).
This is a perfect opportunity to provide API improvements.
To decrease maintenance pressure on the library, outdated APIs will be removed from the library which affects user integration code of oneDNN.
oneDNN v3.0 will not be API/ABI backward compatible with oneDNN v2.x.
Hence, user will need to modify their code to use oneDNN v3.0.
Below one may find a comprehensive list of targeted changes:

## List of changes
Disclaimer: header files are copied in this folder are from oneDNN v2.7 to preserve lines to refer to exact spots.

* Build:
    * Build time option `DNNL_USE_RT_OBJECTS_IN_PRIMITIVE_CACHE` and all code supporting the `false` value will be removed.

* C/C++ types:
    * Eltwise algorithm types:
        - [`soft_relu`](dnnl.hpp#L563) will be removed. [`soft_relu_v2`](dnnl.hpp#L565) will be renamed into `soft_relu`.
            * End user must specify `alpha` value in a correspondent call.

>         - [`logsigmoid`](dnnl.hpp#L567) will be removed. It can be used as current [`soft_relu_v2`](dnnl.hpp#L565) with `alpha` equal to `-1`.

Author: Hi @kawakami-k, just a heads up for this one: I've noticed that aarch64 eltwise injector lacks soft_relu_v2 support. Since we are cleaning up API for v1 and logsigmoid, aarch64 backend will not have an actual support for that. If these are important algorithms for any of your customers, could you, please, plan an implementation for it, please?

Ho @nSircombe, same applies for ACL backend. I don't know exact constraints but if ACL soft relu doesn't support alpha, v2 algorithm should be used with a limitation of alpha equal to -1 instead of current v1. Could you check it for me, please?

Thank you.

            * End user must replace the algorithm with another one.
        - [`bounded_relu`](dnnl.hpp#L561) will be removed. It can be used as current [`clip`](dnnl.hpp#L584) with `alpha` equal to `0` and `beta` equal to former `alpha`.
            * End user must replace the algorithm with another one.
        - [`hardswish`](dnnl.hpp#L592) will get an extension with `alpha` and `beta` parameters and follow [`hardsigmoid`](dnnl.hpp#L594) algorithm, since in many frameworks `hardswish` is defined as `x * hardsigmoid(x)`, but current version of `hardswish` has hard coded `alpha` and `beta` values to `1/6` and `1/2` while different frameworks may utilize other values.
            * End user must specify `alpha` and `beta` values in a correspondent call.
        - [`eltwise_gelu`](dnnl.hpp#576) will be removed as an alias to `eltwise_gelu_tanh`.
            * End user must replace one type with another one.
        - C enum type algorithm values will be modified.
            * No impact for end user.
    * Memory format tags:
        - Values of certain plain tags will change to group them together.
            * No impact for end user.

>     * Normalization [`use_scaleshift`](dnnl.hpp#L724) flag will be removed. This functionality is [supported](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDNN/tree/rfcs/rfcs/20210223-batch-norm-scale-only) through two different flags [`use_scale`](dnnl.hpp#L740) and [`use_shift`](dnnl.hpp#L745).

Author: Hi @kawakami-k, one more tag for you... Turned out that separate `use_scale` and `use_shift` are not supported in jit_uni_batch_normalization implementation for aarch64 cpu. To proceed with API changed, I decided to drop `use_shift` support from the implementation and keep `use_scale` support only, since extended support requires one more register and there's some magic I don't have time to figure out, sorry. Just heads up that both flags support is no longer there. Thank you.

Reviewer 3: BTW I'm on intel i9...

Author: Hi @blueberry, the thing is that `SHIFT` argument doesn't participate in any bwd computations, it's derivative vanishes away. `DIFF_SHIFT` only does as a storage. That's the reason it was removed to not to mandate a memory object which may not be present on upper application level at that point.

Since `scaleshift` was a single piece, it didn't make any sense to split them at execution, but with separate arguments, there's less sense to keep both of them.

Reviewer 3: Thank you @dzarukin. I am yet to see whether numbers in my high level code are broken by this change. Anyway, the documentation is wrong then, since it implies that dnnl_use_shift is relevant and that dnnl_use_scale | dnnl_use_shift replace dnnl_use_scaleshift.

Author: Thanks for letting me know, I'll take a look and fix the wrong part.
